# Budget Bakery

### Reflection

For this project I wanted to recreate one of my previous projects as closely as possible using react. https://github.com/ScottGreenhalgh/week03-assignment. Retaining all the existing features.

To start this process I took a look towards the existing HTML and decided how I would segment the page into seperate components. Since my original structure kept the different elements nicely commented I was able to initially seperate the page into 4 distinct segments, header, left sidebar, main and right sidebar. From here I needed to work out what further components were needed within these. I decided that any components that were previously created using HTML would be handled within their own components. Starting in the right sidebar where the api would pull all the data related to upgrades, I outlined what the original generated HTML would look like and returned this. I then created a styles folder and created a css file corresponding to each of my components and imported them to their corresponding name. I then went through the same process as the HTML but this time for CSS, segmenting the styling to the relevant elements.

#### API Handling

Initially I decided that fetching from the API would be handled down here. I used the useState functions from the react library to update the page upon fetch and useEffect to ensure that this call was only processed a single time. After correctly applying this information to the page, I realised that other components would need access to this data, so I moved the fetch request from the right sidebar to the App.jsx component. I then found that this is unnecessarily passing the data through components that don't need access to the information. From here I offloaded this fetch request to a seperate utils folder which I could import as and when I needed it. At this time I also created a couple other utility functions that I would need during the project. This included a number formatter (adding commas for every 3 numerical characters improving readability) and a delay function which I would later use to handle the save function and any potential animations down the line.

#### Button functionality

From here I wanted to get a few of the buttons to operate so I turned my attention to main, specifically the cookies notice. I created a seperate component for this to segment the logic. Using my knowlege of `useState` and `useEffect` I began to translate my original logic from my week03 project to something React can read. In that project I was displaying the tracking cookies notice by toggling between the style display none when the cookies were present. Render doesn't dynamically update in the same way. I started by creating two functions to handle the original cookie creation logic which remains the same. I then created an array for useState and used a boolean to track whether it should or shouldn't display, defaulting to true. From here if any of the buttons are pressed, the value can be set to false and a rerender can be triggered. Then I simply created an if statement to return early with null if the visibility was set to false. This prevents any of the html elements from appearing on the page. After this I created a useEffect with an empty array parameter, allowing it to run only on the initial render. Inside here I placed an if statement that checks if either of the created cookies are present using the or (`||`) operator and setting the visibility to false if they're present.

Next I moved to the header to handle the logic for the darkmode toggle button. Since I applied ids to each div element corresponding to each element, I first created a function to select each of these elements. I then used `.classList.toggle()` to toggle between my alternative style options in a very similar way to my original project. I then created another function that would call this function and create cookies to track the selection. Using the not operator (`!`) I can easily toggle between the two cookie options of true and false. I did knowever need this to rerender on the page, so I once gain needed to use `useState` and `useEffect`. I created another useState array using a boolean value and brought those into my toggle function. Next I needed to track whether the cookie was present on page load and utilised useEffect to do this again using another empty array to execute a single time. Next I would find if the cookie was present, if it was I would toggle the value of darkmode applying it on the initial render.
